index.md, before:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
title: Home
---

## Demos

### 1. Getting Started

- [Demo 1: Development Environment Setup]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-01-dev-env-setup/)
- [Demo 2: Setting Up a New Rails Project]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-02-new-rails-project/)
- [Demo 3: Setting Up a New Github Project Repository]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-03-new-github-project/)

### 2. Creating and Testing Simple Web Pages

- [Demo 4: Adding (Mostly Static) View Pages in Rails]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-04-rails-static-pages)
- [Demo 5: Rendering Data from Controllers]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-05-rendering-data-from-controller/)
- [Demo 6: Passing Data from View to Controller]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-06-passing-data-from-view-to-controller/)

### 3. Storing and Retrieving Data via the Model

- [Demo 7: Working with Simple Models]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-07-working-with-simple-models/)
- [Demo 8: Model Validations and Tests]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-08-model-validations-and-tests/)
- [Demo 9: Forms for Creating New Model Records]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-09-new-create-forms/)
- [Demo 10: Forms and Actions for Updating and Deleting Model Records]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-10-edit-update-destroy-forms/)
- [Demo 11: One-to-Many Model Associations]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-11-one-to-many-associations-part-1/)

## Deets

- [ERBs Explained]({{ site.baseurl }}/deets-erb/)
- [Sessions and the Flash Explained]({{ site.baseurl }}/deets-sessions/)

Commit message:

Added Demo 12 and reorganized Demos 10 and 11, adding a new Demo 10 1/2

index.md, after:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
title: Home
---

## Demos

### 1. Getting Started

- [Demo 1: Development Environment Setup]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-01-dev-env-setup/)
- [Demo 2: Setting Up a New Rails Project]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-02-new-rails-project/)
- [Demo 3: Setting Up a New Github Project Repository]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-03-new-github-project/)

### 2. Creating and Testing Simple Web Pages

- [Demo 4: Adding (Mostly Static) View Pages in Rails]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-04-rails-static-pages)
- [Demo 5: Rendering Data from Controllers]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-05-rendering-data-from-controller/)
- [Demo 6: Passing Data from View to Controller]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-06-passing-data-from-view-to-controller/)

### 3. Storing and Retrieving Data via the Model

- [Demo 7: Working with Simple Models]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-07-working-with-simple-models/)
- [Demo 8: Model Validations and Tests]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-08-model-validations-and-tests/)
- [Demo 9: Forms for Creating New Model Records]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-09-new-create-forms/)
- [Demo 10: Forms and Actions for Updating and Deleting Model Records]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-10-edit-update-destroy-forms/)

### 4. Linking Model Objects with Associations

- [Demo 10½: Creating a New Model Class to Associate With]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-10b-one-to-many-associations-part-0/)
- [Demo 11: One-to-Many Model Associations]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-11-one-to-many-associations-part-1/)
- [Demo 12: Forms That Handle One-to-Many Associations]({{ site.baseurl }}/demo-12-one-to-many-associations-part-2/)

## Deets

- [ERBs Explained]({{ site.baseurl }}/deets-erb/)
- [Sessions and the Flash Explained]({{ site.baseurl }}/deets-sessions/)
